===== PAGE 1 =====
Q: What is the difference between Insight and 
Insight Tokens? 
 
Q: What does “At X Speed, before Hunter’s Attack” 
mean when it appears on enemy Abilities?
A: Enemy Abilities trigger immediately when they are revealed 
(eg. when the Ability card is flipped from the Enemy Action 
Deck) unless they specifically list a speed. “At X Speed” means 
the Ability is only resolving at the listed Speed, meaning that 
if the enemy is slain by a faster Attack, the Ability will not 
resolve. The “… before Hunter’s Attack” wording on such 
Abilities is specifically addressing the case of both the Hunter’s 
Attack and the Ability being the same Speed, denoting that 
in such an event the Ability will resolve before the Hunter’s 
Attack (where-as, by usual rules, they would be simultaneous).
Q: If I use a card to “Dodge”, do any other effects 
listed on that card also trigger?
A: Effects listed on Stat Cards happen any time they are placed 
into an Attack Slot regardless if this is from being utilized as an 
Attack or when Dodging; “Dodge” is just another keyword on 
the card (just like Stagger or Heal). It does not cause any other 
keywords to be excluded from triggering.
Q: If Chapter Set-Up calls for “Random, Unused 
tiles” are these in addition to the random tiles used 
to generate the Tile Deck, or are they taken from 
those tiles?
A: If a Chapter calls for additional set-up using “Random, 
Unused tiles” these tiles are not included in the number 
listed under Set-Up. Example: Chapter 2 of the Long Hunt 
calls for specific tiles to be placed prior to set-up, separated by 
“2 random, unused tiles” and also instructs to generate the 
Tile Deck with 
 x2 Random Tiles. The 2 tiles taken during 
Set-Up do not count towards the 
 x2 Random Tiles.
BLOODBORNE: THE BOARD GAME
1
V1.0 
Insight is represented by the white cards (which 
usually list Rewards as well) revealed once an 
Insight/Hunt Mission has been completed.
Q: Can I use a card with the 
“Dodge” keyword to initiate an 
Attack?
A: Yes. Dodge is just a keyword on a 
Stat Card designating that the card 
can be used during the “Dodge” step 
of Combat. It does not limit it to only 
being used during that step.
Q: Are effects on Stat Cards 
optional or must they be used?
A: If the effect can be completed (such 
as Heal 1) then it must be used when the 
card is played. Note that being unable 
to perform the effect (such as trying to 
Heal while at full HP) does not exclude 
the card from being able to be used.
G E N E R A L
F A Q
A: Insight Tokens are generic tokens used for a 
multitude of things in the game (such as tracking 
completion of Missions or marking a place 
on the map). They are not related to gained 
Insight, which is the reward for completing 
Insight Missions (which are usually required to 
win the game).

===== PAGE 2 =====
Q: When do the effects of Stat Cards trigger?
A: All effects of Stat Cards trigger immediately when they 
are placed into an Attack Slot (Such as Heal 1, Draw 1, Clear 
Slot, etc) unless specifically stated otherwise (Such as Effects 
Linked to Attacks, eg. Stagger). 
Q: If a tile is placed as part of Chapter Set-Up, is it 
populated with Enemies/Consumables?
A: Yes.
Are Named Tiles to be included when Chapter Set-Up 
calls for “Random Tiles”?
A: Yes.
Q: During an Attack, an effect moves either the 
Hunter or the Enemy out of the space before the 
opponent’s Attack has resolved, what happens? 
(Example, an Enemy Attack moves it 2 spaces away at 
, while the Hunter’s Attack is resolving at 
 ).
A: The opposing Attack will not affect the Enemy/Hunter, as 
they are no longer in that space. Note, however, the Attack 
still takes place, which is relevant for any effects that might 
trigger based off that Attack (Such as the Rally Upgrade card, 
which Heals 2 after Attacking).
Q: I have an effect that Heals after an Attack, but 
the Enemy deals me enough damage to slay me. Do 
I get to Heal?
A: No. You Died.
Q: Is there a limit to how many times the Hunt Track 
can advance each Round?
A: No. The Hunt Track advances 1 space at the Start of Each 
Round and 1 space each time any Hunter Goes to the Dream 
(regardless of why). This means that hypothetically in a game 
with 4 Hunters, the Hunt Track could advance 5 times in one 
Round: Once at the Start and 4 additional times should all 4 
Hunters decide/are forced to Go to the Dream.
Q: If during a Combat a Boss is dealt enough damage 
to transition to Phase 2, but hadn’t yet resolved its 
Attack (such as it having a 
 Attack, and the Attack 
that caused the transition being  
) what happens?
A: The Phase 1 Attack will still be resolved. All subsequent 
draws will be from the Phase 2 Deck.
Q: If a Mission spawns an Enemy-type outside the 
3 selected during Chapter Set-Up, in what order do 
those Enemies activate?
A: Additional Enemies activate after those listed on the Hunt 
Board. 
Q: A Mission spawns an Enemy that utilizes Insight 
Tokens: “Instead of being slain, remove 1 Insight 
token…” What happens if I reduce that enemy to 0 
HP before it has Attacked? Does it cancel the Attack?
A: No. The Mission rule states, “instead of being slain.” The 
Enemy is not slain for any gameplay purposes or triggers, nor is 
its Attack cancelled in any way.
2
Follow-Up question: 
Q: How does this interact with the “Block” effect? 
A: “Block” is not an effect linked to attacking, nor does it 
list a speed. When an Attack/Ability (Yes, this includes 
when it appears on both Hunter and Enemy Attacks/
Abilities) they gain the effect immediately; Blocking is 
not reliant on the speed of the Attack or Ability.

===== PAGE 3 =====
STAT CARD: LEAPING: 
How does this card work?
This Stat Card can be used to initiate 
an Attack from up to 2 spaces away. 
The Hunter will move into the space 
with the Enemy then resolve the 
Attack as usual.
STAT CARD “EFFECT”: BLOCK: 
How does this effect work?
“Block” is not an effect linked to 
attacking, nor does it list a speed. 
When an Attack/Ability (Yes, this 
includes when it appears on both 
Hunter and Enemy Attacks/Abilities) 
they gain the effect immediately; 
Blocking is not reliant on the speed 
of the Attack or Ability.
HUNTER TOOL: 
BLOOD STONE SHARD: 
Does this take up a Hunter Tool 
Slot? Do I exhaust it?
Yes, this takes up one of your 2 
available Hunter Tool slots. No, this 
unique reward is never exhausted. Its 
effects are always active on the slot it 
is placed in.
HUNTER: SAW CLEAVER: 
“Attacks 
with 
Stagger 
deal 
+1 
Damage”. Must my attack successfully 
Stagger or is having the “Stagger” 
keyword enough?
The Attack only has to have the 
Stagger keyword. It does not need to 
actually Stagger the enemy to gain the 
+1 damage benefit.
3
Q: If an Attack “targets all Hunters in this space”, 
what response can those Hunters do?
A: The initial Hunter’s Attack resolves as usual (assuming they 
Attacked). Other Hunters only have the option to Dodge, 
unless the Enemy Attack specifically states otherwise.
Q: Sometimes an enemy will have an Ability under 
“Basic” or “Special”. How are these resolved?
A: These are Abilities for all gameplay purposes (eg. They are 
not Attacks), meaning, for example, they cannot be affected by 
Stagger or the Hunter’s Pistol (which specifies a Basic Attack).
Specific Cards

===== PAGE 4 =====
Errata
Attached to this document are corrected files for cards with errors and/or typos. Here is a list of the corrections:
CORE BOX
Growing Madness - Chapter 3 Setup:
Add “Graveyard” tile. Reduce Random tiles to (Max 5).
The Long Hunt - Card 20: 
Cleric Beast spawns on 
 space, not 
 .
Secrets of the Church - Card 18: 
Cleric Beast spawns on 
 space, not 
 .
CHALICE DUNGEON 
Setup Card: Add “Arena Gate” tile.
FORSAKEN CAINHURST CASTLE
Forsaken Legacy - Card 15: 
Reward Typo: “Caryll Rune: Executioner” should be “Caryll 
Rune: Corruption”.
Martyr’s Legacy - Chapter 2 Missions: 
Typo: “Statuary Hallway” should be “Statuary Hall”.
Martyr’s Legacy - Card 11: 
Typo: “Statuary Corridor” should be “Statuary Hall”.
FORBIDDEN WOODS
Dark Rites - Chapter 3 Setup: 
Missing Decrepit Shack tile. Reduce Random tiles to (Max 5)
Dark Rites - Card 46: 
Typo: “Decrepit House” should be “Decrepit Shack”.
Den of Vipers - Card 5: 
Reward Typo: “Caryll Rune: Blood Moon” should be “Caryll 
Rune: Moon”.
Den of Vipers - Card 10: 
Reward Typo: “Blunderbuss” should be “Hunter’s Blunderbuss”.
Den of Vipers - Card 34: 
Reward missing instruction to teleport any Hunters on the 
Iosefka’s Clinic tile to the Collapsed Tunnel space.
MERGO’S LOFT 
Birth of Madness – Card 33: 
Card text should be “Hunters may Interact while on any 
 
 space to Teleport to the Mergo’s Loft “Lamp” space, or 
Teleport from this space to any other 
 space.
BYRGENWERTH 
The Eldritch Truth - Card 20: 
Revision indicating Garden of Eyes cannot leave its space.
The Eldritch Truth - Card 25: 
This should refer to Garden of Eyes and Oedon’s Chapel.
