
===== PAGE 1 =====
In all the Known Universe, there is no more precious resource 
than the spice melange. Found only on the harsh desert 
planet of Arrakis (also known as Dune), control of the 
spice is a focal point of conflict among the Great Houses 
of the Imperium. In its pursuit, those vying for power 
seek alliances and support to secure their position. 
The governing councilors of the Landsraad. The 
CHOAM Company and its insatiable hunger for 
profit. The far-sighted Bene Gesserit. The Spacing 
Guild with its monopoly on foldspace travel. The 
Fremen, resilient warriors of the desert. Even the 
Emperor himself is not above the struggle for 
dominance. Conflict is inevitable, and its outcome 
is uncertain. One thing is certain, however:
Whoever controls the spice controls the universe…


===== PAGE 2 =====
In the world of Dune, computers (or 
thinking machines) have been banned for 
many millennia, since a great war in which 
Artificial Intelligence almost destroyed 
humanity. In that war’s aftermath, some 
humans devoted themselves to rigorous 
training to become “human calculators” — these 
are called Mentats.
2
Across the Imperium
This page contains no game rules; you can skip 
ahead if you’d like. But if you don’t know much 
about the world of Dune, or want to learn how the 
game board connects to the story, see below. 
The Spacing Guild 
has a monopoly on 
foldspace travel. 
Their massive 
heighliners can transport large 
amounts of troops to Dune for 
you, if you can afford to pay the 
high price they ask in spice.
Shaddam IV of 
House Corrino is the 
ruthless Emperor of 
the Known Universe. 
Making inroads with him will fill 
your coffers with Solari, the 
main currency of the Imperium. 
The Combine Honnete Ober Advancer 
Mercantiles (or simply CHOAM) is a 
massive commercial organization that 
spans the Imperium. If you need 
to make some quick Solari, they’re 
always willing to cut a deal.
The colossal 
sandworms of Dune 
rule its deserts, a 
constant threat to 
those who seek the planet’s 
spice. But you must brave the 
desert to earn its rewards. 
One good harvest can open 
many doors... 
The populated areas 
of Dune are 
important sites from 
which to stage any 
military campaigns, as you can 
muster troops at most of 
these locations.
The intrigues and 
machinations of the 
Bene Gesserit 
sisterhood and their 
generations-long planning are 
everywhere in the Imperium, 
seen and unseen. 
DUNE: IMPERIUM is a deck-building worker placement game that finds 
inspiration in elements and characters from the Dune legacy, both the 
new film from Legendary Pictures and the seminal literary series from 
Frank Herbert, Brian Herbert, and Kevin J. Anderson.
Note: The game comes with two leaders each from four Great Houses. 
For the most authentic story experience, two leaders from the same 
House shouldn’t be used in the same game. But the game is also 
designed to allow nonstandard leader combinations and “What If?” 
scenarios.
The Fremen are 
fierce warriors, and 
their water discipline 
gives them a unique 
advantage in the struggle for 
control of Dune. Their 
assistance is essential to 
harvesting the valuable spice.
The Emperor presides over the 
Landsraad, the governing body that 
represents the Great Houses of the 
Imperium. It’s no coincidence that 
Solari go a long way here at making 
connections, earning favors, or gaining a 
permanent strategic advantage.


===== PAGE 3 =====
3
Game Components
Game board
Solari tokens 
4 large (worth 5)
20 small (worth 1)
Spice tokens 
3 large (worth 5)
20 small (worth 1)
15 water tokens
24 Reserve cards 
8 Arrakis Liaison 
10 The Spice Must Flow 
6 Foldspace
67 Imperium Deck cards
Board Space Guide sheet
Used only in a Solo or  
Two-Player Game
House Hagal rules sheet
31 House Hagal cards
8 Leaders 
with Turn Sequence 
guide on their backs
Mentat
4 Alliance tokens
First Player
marker
4 Baron Harkonnen tokens 
Used with the Baron 
Vladimir Harkonnen Leader
Player Components
3 Agents
3 Control markers
Combat marker
10-card starting deck 
Containing:
Convincing Argument (2)
Dagger (2)
Diplomacy (1)
Dune, the Desert Planet (2)
Reconnaissance (1)
Seek Allies (1)
Signet Ring (1)
The above components come in different 
colors for each player. Only red is shown.
Starting deck cards can be 
identified by this symbol.
16 cubes
2 discs 
1 Score marker 
1 Councilor token 
40 Intrigue cards
18 Conflict cards 
4 Conflict I
10 Conflict II
4 Conflict III


===== PAGE 4 =====
C1
B
Create a Conflict Deck:
Separate the Conflict cards by their backs: 
Conflict I, Conflict II, and Conflict III.
Shuffle the four Conflict III cards and place all of them 
face down in the marked area of the game board.
Shuffle the 10 Conflict II cards, then deal five face 
down on top of the Conflict III cards.
Shuffle the four Conflict I cards, then deal one face 
down on top of the Conflict II cards.
You should now have a 10-card Conflict Deck on 
the game board, with one Conflict I card on top, 
five Conflict II cards below it, then the four Conflict 
III cards on the bottom. Return the unused Conflict 
cards to the game box without looking at them.
A1
D
Each player takes a Leader and places it in front of them. 
(You may choose or select at random.)
Leaders have from one to three icons after their names. 
Leaders with more icons are more strategically complex. 
For your first game, it is recommended that each player 
chooses a Leader with just one icon: Paul Atreides, 
Glossu “The Beast” Rabban, Earl Memnon Thorvald, or 
Count Ilban Richese.
C
Prepare these cards along the edge of the game board:
C1
Shuffle the Intrigue Deck and place it face down.
C2
Shuffle the Imperium Deck and place it face down. 
From it, deal five cards face up to form an 
Imperium Row.
C3
Next to the Imperium Row, place the Reserve cards 
in three stacks: one for Arrakis Liaison, one for 
The Spice Must Flow, and one for Foldspace.
C2
B
Setup
G4
G4
G4
G4
A
Place the game board in your play area, and 
then place the following components on it:
A1
Place the Mentat on its side in the 
Mentat space.
A2
Place the four Alliance tokens 
on the marked areas of the 
Faction’s Influence tracks 
(Emperor, Spacing Guild, 
Bene Gesserit, and Fremen).
4
A2
A2
A2
A2
Do you prefer to learn by watching a video?


===== PAGE 5 =====
F2
C3
E
Each player takes a 10-card 
starting deck, shuffles it, 
and places it face down in their 
supply to the left of their Leader.
H
Determine a first player randomly. They take the First 
Player marker.
Solo and Two-Player games require additional setup. 
For details, see the separate rules sheet: House Hagal Cards.
G1
G5
G2
Each player has their own supply,  
with similar components. 
E
F1, G6
D, G1
G3
5
G
Each player chooses a color and takes all of its components.
G1
Place two of your Agents on your Leader. Place your third Agent 
(your Swordmaster) next to the game board.
G2
Place one of your two discs on the Score track. In a 4-player game, 
place it on the 1 space. Otherwise, place it on the 0 space.
G3
Place your Combat marker (with the side shown at the right face up) 
on the 0 space of the Combat track.
G4
Place four cubes, one each, on the bottom spaces of the Influence 
tracks of the four Factions.
G5
The other 12 cubes represent your troops. Place three in one of the four circular 
garrisons on the game board (each player taking the one closest to them). 
G6
Place your remaining components in your supply, in clear 
view of all players.
F1
Each player takes 1 water and places it in their supply. 
F2
Create a bank next to the game board containing the Solari, spice, 
and remaining water tokens. These are not meant to be limited; 
if you run out and need more, make any convenient substitution.
Want to enhance your DUNE: IMPERIUM 
experience? Check out the Dire Wolf Game Room 
companion app for your PC, smartphone or tablet.


===== PAGE 6 =====
Game Overview and Major Concepts
Objective
You are a Leader of one of the Great Houses of the Landsraad. Defeat your rivals in Combat, wield political Influence, and form alliances with 
the four major Factions. Your successes will be measured in Victory Points.
Whenever you gain or lose a Victory Point, move your Score marker up or down one space on the Score track. At the end of a 
round, if any player has reached 10 or more Victory Points (or if the Conflict Deck is empty), the game ends, and whoever has the 
most Victory Points wins.
Leaders
Each Leader has two different unique abilities:
The first, on the left, is used during play as described on the Leader.
The second, on the right and marked by the Signet Ring icon, is activated when 
you play your Signet Ring card on one of your Agent turns.
Deck Building
You start the game with a 10-card deck containing the same cards as the other players. Adding to and changing that deck is the key element 
of play in a deck-building game. During each round, you may acquire new cards to add to your deck. Because cards do many different things, 
each player’s deck and strategy will diverge as the game unfolds.
Whenever you acquire a new Imperium or Reserve card, it is first placed in your discard pile. 
And any time you’re unable to draw a card because your deck is empty, you reshuffle your 
discard pile to form a new deck, then continue to draw as needed.
There are also ways to “trash” cards, removing them from your deck altogether for the rest of 
the game. By strategically removing weaker cards from your deck, you increase the chances of drawing your stronger cards more often.
Agents
You start the game with two Agents (and can gain a third 
during play). You send Agents to spaces on the game 
board, sometimes gathering resources, sometimes paying 
resources to advance your strategy. (This is explained fully 
in Phase 2: Player Turns, while board spaces are described in 
detail in the separate Board Space Guide sheet.)
In DUNE: IMPERIUM, Agents and cards are tightly linked; you can’t 
send an Agent to a board space without first playing a card that 
allows it.
The Mentat Agent
The Mentat is a special freelance Agent that 
you can temporarily add to your roster of 
Agents for one round. See the Mentat board 
space in the separate Board Space Guide sheet 
for more details.
6
Cards of any type can override 
the usual rules of the game!


===== PAGE 7 =====
7
Factions
In DUNE: IMPERIUM, the four Factions represent powerful forces on Dune and elsewhere in the Imperium. Increasing your Influence and 
earning an Alliance with one or more of them is one of the key routes to victory in the game. See “Across the Imperium” on Page 2 for short 
descriptions of each of the Factions.
  
  
  
Your Faction cubes begin at the bottom of each Faction’s Influence track. Throughout the game, your Influence 
with a Faction will increase or decrease, depending on the cards you play and the actions you take. When you 
send an Agent to a Faction’s board space, gain one Influence with that Faction by advancing your cube one 
space on its Influence track. Other game effects can also move your cube up (and occasionally down) the track.
When you reach 2 Influence with a Faction, you gain a Victory Point. If you drop back below 2 Influence, you lose 
that Victory Point.
When you reach 4 Influence, you earn the bonus shown on that space of the track. If you drop back below 4 
Influence, you do not give back the bonus. (It’s possible—though unusual—to earn the same bonus more than 
once, if you move back then advance again.)
The first player to reach 4 Influence with a Faction also earns an Alliance with that Faction. They take the Alliance 
token from the track, put it in their supply and gain the Victory Point shown on the Alliance token. If they are ever 
passed by an opponent rising to a higher space on the track, they must give the Alliance token to that opponent; 
they lose that Victory Point and the opponent gains it.
Intrigue Cards
Intrigue cards represent subterfuge, backroom dealings, and surprise twists—
they can provide resources like water or spice, increase your Influence with a 
Faction, or even score Victory Points. Each Intrigue card indicates when it can be 
played, what effect it has, and whether there are costs or conditions to playing it.
You receive Intrigue cards primarily from three board spaces: Carthag, Conspire, 
and Secrets. (But look for other opportunities on cards, wherever you see the 
Intrigue card icon.) They are kept face down, separate from your deck. You may 
look at them at any time. Reveal them to your opponents only when you play 
them. Once an Intrigue card is played and resolved, place it face up in a discard 
pile next to the Intrigue Deck.
There are three types of Intrigue cards: Plot, Combat, and Endgame.
•	
You may play a Plot Intrigue card any time during one of your Agent or Reveal turns.
•	
You may play a Combat Intrigue card only during Combat.
•	
You may play an Endgame Intrigue card only at the end of the game.


===== PAGE 8 =====
DUNE: IMPERIUM is played in a series of rounds. Each round consists of five phases, in this order:
Each round begins by revealing a new Conflict card from the top of the Conflict Deck. Place it face 
up in the space next to the Conflict Deck (on top of any Conflict cards from previous rounds).
Next, each player draws five cards from their own deck, forming their 
hand for the round.
Round Structure
 Phase 1: Round Start
Starting with the player who has the First Player marker 
and continuing clockwise, players take one turn at a time.
On your turn, you will take either an Agent turn or a Reveal 
turn. These types of turns are detailed over the next three 
pages. Generally, you will take Agent turns until you run 
out of Agents to place, then you will take a Reveal turn. 
(Note that Agent turns are optional. If you choose to, you 
can take a Reveal turn while you still have Agents instead 
of taking an Agent turn.)
Once you’ve taken a Reveal turn, your turns are skipped for 
the rest of the phase, while other players finish taking their 
turns. Once all players have taken a Reveal turn, this phase 
ends.
You may play any Plot Intrigue cards you have during 
this phase, at any point during one of your own Agent or 
Reveal turns.
 Phase 2: Player Turns
1. Round Start
3. Combat
4. Makers
5. Recall
2. Player Turns
Agent Turn
Reveal Turn
Card Anatomy
The effects of each card in your deck are divided into two parts: an 
Agent box and a Reveal box. On any given turn, you may use the 
effects contained in only one of those boxes: the Agent box during 
an Agent turn, or the Reveal box during a Reveal turn.
A
Name
B
Faction 
Not all cards are part of a Faction.
C
Agent icons
D
Agent box
E
Reveal box
F
Persuasion Cost
G
Acquire effect 
Not all cards have an Acquire effect. (Learn about Acquire on this rulebook’s back cover.)
A
B
C
F
G
D
E
8


===== PAGE 9 =====
When you play a card and send an Agent to a board space, 
you gain the effects of the board space as well as the 
effects contained in the Agent box of the card. If the board 
space belongs to one of the Factions, you also move your 
cube one space up on its Influence track. You may carry 
out all these effects in any order.
Some card effects are written out, but many are iconized. 
Refer to the separate Board Space Guide sheet for an 
explanation of all board spaces, and the back cover of the 
rulebook for a guide to all game icons and additional game 
terms.
Arrows on cards and on the board (
) indicate that there 
is a cost (left of the arrow, or above it) you must pay to get 
the effect (right of the arrow, or below it). You are never 
forced to pay such a cost. However, if you don’t, you won’t 
gain the effect.
When you play Fremen Camp, you may decide 
not to pay 2 spice to recruit 3 troops.
Sietch Tabr Influence
The Sietch Tabr board space has a unique 
requirement. To send an Agent there, you must 
have 2 or more Influence with the Fremen.
 Player Turn – Agent Turn
In an Agent turn, you play one card from your hand face up in 
front of you, using it to send an Agent from your Leader to an 
unoccupied space on the game board. 
This board space must have an icon 
in its upper left corner matching one 
of the Agent icons on the card.
You must choose only one Agent icon on your 
card; one card can’t send multiple Agents.
You can’t send an Agent to a board space that already has one.
You must pay any costs or meet any requirements of the board space 
you choose.
In addition, the Agent box of the card you played may provide an effect 
when you play it on an Agent turn. (You ignore the Reveal box of the card 
during Agent turns.)
If a card does not have any Agent icons on it, you may 
not play it during an Agent turn. It may only be revealed 
during a Reveal turn.
Board Space Costs
To send an Agent to some board spaces, you must pay a cost. 
If you can’t pay the cost immediately (before resolving any effects 
of the space or the card you played), you can’t send your Agent 
there.
Here are the two Emperor spaces on the game 
board. The top space, “Conspire,” requires that 
you pay 4 spice to send an Agent there.
The bottom space, “Wealth,” has no 
additional cost.
The seven different Agent icons are:
This Sardaukar Legion card has two Agent icons. 
The Emperor icon allows you to send your Agent to 
either of the two Emperor board spaces, while the 
Landsraad icon allows you to send it to one of the 
five board spaces in the Landsraad instead.
Emperor
Spacing Guild
Bene Gesserit
Fremen
Landsraad
City
Spice Trade
9


===== PAGE 10 =====
Control Bonuses
Some Conflict cards (explained more in Phase 3: Combat) 
reward a player with control over one of three spaces on Dune: 
Arrakeen, Carthag, or Imperial Basin (based on the card’s 
title). If you win such a Conflict, take a Control marker from 
your supply and place it on the flag below the 
appropriate board space. 
While your Control marker is on one of these 
spaces, you receive the bonus shown whenever 
any player (yourself included) sends an Agent there. The bonus 
is 1 Solari for Arrakeen or Carthag, and 1 spice for Imperial 
Basin.
When a Conflict card is revealed for a space that you already 
control, you receive a defensive bonus: you may deploy one 
troop from your supply to the Conflict.
Deploying Troops to the Conflict
At the start of each round, the current Conflict card is revealed, 
offering rewards for which the players will compete in Combat. 
Whenever the cube icon appears on a card or board 
space, you recruit one troop. Take a troop from your 
supply and place it in your garrison on the game board. (If you 
run out of troops in your supply, you can’t recruit more until 
some return there.)
You can’t earn rewards with troops sitting in your 
garrison, however. You may deploy them to a 
Conflict when you send an Agent to a Combat 
space. Combat spaces are board spaces that 
feature a desert illustration and crossed swords. While most of 
these appear on the planet Dune itself, three appear with the 
Factions: one with the Spacing Guild (Heighliner) and two with 
the Fremen (Hardy Warriors and Stillsuits).
When you send an Agent to a Combat 
space, you may deploy troops to the 
Conflict area—the area of the game 
board in the center of the garrisons. You 
may deploy any or all troops recruited 
during your current turn (from both the 
board space and the card you played), 
plus up to two more troops from your garrison. (Any troops 
you recruit but choose not to deploy to the Conflict are placed 
in your garrison as usual.)
 Player Turn – Agent Turn  (Continued)
John plays Dune, the Desert Planet 
to send an Agent to Imperial Basin. He 
collects spice from the space. His card 
provides no additional Agent turn effect.
Imperial Basin is a Combat space. John didn’t recruit any 
troops with either the card he played or the board space 
where he sent his Agent. But he does have three troops in his garrison. 
He decides to fight as hard as he can, and deploys two troops from his 
garrison to the Conflict—the maximum number allowed.
Abby plays Duncan Idaho to send an 
Agent to Carthag. John’s Control marker is 
there from an earlier round, so he takes 
1 Solari from the bank.
From the board space, Abby recruits a troop and draws 
an Intrigue card. With Duncan Idaho, she chooses to pay 
1 water to recruit another troop and draw a card from her deck.
Abby could place her two newly recruited troops in her garrison. But 
Carthag is also a Combat space, and she senses the possibility of victory 
over John. She deploys those troops to the Conflict, plus one more that she 
already had in her garrison. (If she’d had a second troop there, she could 
have deployed it too.)
Ned decides to use his turn to build 
up forces to fight on a later round. He 
plays Bene Gesserit Initiate to send 
an Agent to Rally Troops. He must pay 
the space’s additional cost of 4 Solari. From the Bene 
Gesserit Initiate, he draws a card from his deck. From the 
Rally Troops board space, he recruits four troops. It isn’t a 
Combat space, however, so he can’t deploy any troops to the Conflict, and 
places them in his garrison instead.
10
Harvesting Spice
There are three board spaces on Arrakis with a Maker 
icon, where you may harvest spice: The Great Flat, 
Hagga Basin, and Imperial Basin. When you send an 
Agent to one of them, you gain the base value of spice 
shown on the space, plus any bonus spice that has 
accumulated there. (See Phase 4: Makers for details.)
When you send an Agent to Hagga 
Basin, you gain 2 spice from the bank 
and take any bonus spice that has 
accumulated there.


===== PAGE 11 =====
John has no more Agents when his turn comes, so he 
takes a Reveal turn. He reveals the three cards remaining in 
his hand: Imperial Spy, Smuggler’s Thopter, and Stilgar.
Smuggler’s Thopter has an effect for John to resolve. 
He takes 1 spice from the bank. His cards also provide 
Persuasion and swords.
John’s cards give him a total of 4 Persuasion. He uses 3 of 
it to acquire Space Travel from the Imperium Row, placing 
it in his discard pile. A new card is then dealt from the 
Imperium Deck to fill the empty space in the Imperium Row. 
Although John has 1 Persuasion remaining, there are no 
cards available that cost only 1.
John has two troops in the Conflict, providing a total of 4 strength. The cards he revealed 
this turn provide 4 more: 1 sword from Imperial Spy and 3 swords from Stilgar. He sets his 
Combat marker at 8 on the Combat track.
Finally, John takes the cards in front of him and puts them in his discard pile.
The phase continues. Abby and Ned will take a Reveal turn at some point. John is done until 
the Combat phase.
When a player has no more Agents for Agent turns (or chooses not to use any Agents they have remaining), that player takes a Reveal turn. 
This consists of the following steps in order: Reveal Cards, Resolve Reveal Effects, Set Strength, and Clean Up.
Reveal Cards
Reveal all cards remaining in your hand, placing them 
face up in play in front of you. Keep them separate from 
other cards you played previously on Agent turns.
Resolve Reveal Effects
You now gain the effects in the Reveal boxes of all the 
cards you just revealed (but not those of any cards you 
played during Agent turns earlier in the round).
You may resolve Reveal effects in any 
order you like. In addition, you may 
use Persuasion that you’ve gained 
to acquire new cards for your deck 
before, between, or after your Reveal 
effects.
Set Strength
Total your strength for the Combat this round.
Each troop you have in the Conflict is worth 2 strength. 
(Troops in your garrison or supply contribute nothing.)
Each sword you revealed during your Reveal turn is 
worth 1 strength.
You must have at least one troop in the Conflict to 
have any strength. If your last troop is ever removed, 
your strength becomes 0, and can’t be increased by any 
means, including swords on cards you revealed.
When you’ve totaled your 
strength, announce it to 
your opponents and move 
your Combat marker to 
the corresponding space on the Combat track. If your 
strength is over 20, flip the Combat marker to the 
+20 side and start again from the beginning of the track.
Clean Up
Remove all the cards from in front of you (from your 
Agent and Reveal turns) and put them in your discard 
pile.
 Player Turn – Reveal Turn
Acquiring Cards
1
The Persuasion you gain during a round is used during your 
Reveal turn to acquire new cards for your deck. You may 
acquire any of the five cards in the Imperium Row, or Arrakis Liaison 
or The Spice Must Flow from the Reserve. (Foldspace is acquired at 
the board space of the same name, as described in the separate 
Board Space Guide sheet.)
The cost to acquire a card is shown at the top right of that card. 
You may acquire as many cards as you like, as long as you have 
enough Persuasion to spend. You may pool Persuasion from multiple 
sources (cards and board spaces) to acquire one card, and may split 
Persuasion from a single source to pay for different cards. Persuasion 
is not represented by any tokens because you can never save it; any 
Persuasion you don’t use during your Reveal turn is lost.
When you acquire a card, place it in your discard pile (face up to the 
right of your Leader). You don’t get to use the new card right away; 
you will shuffle it along with the rest of your discard pile when you 
run out of cards to draw.
The Imperium Row must always have five cards; whenever it does 
not, replace missing cards from the top of the Imperium Deck. This 
means that after you acquire one card, you may then acquire the 
card that replaces it (if you have enough Persuasion).
11


===== PAGE 12 =====
As the Combat Phase begins, John has 8 strength and Abby has 6 strength. John has the First Player marker, but he’s already ahead in the 
Conflict. He passes on the chance to play a Combat Intrigue card.
Abby is next, and does play an Intrigue card, Ambush. It gives her 4 more strength, and she advances her Combat marker to 10.
Ned is next in player order, but has no troops in the Conflict. He has 0 strength and can’t take part in this phase.
It’s now back to John. Even though he passed earlier in this phase, he could now decide to play an Intrigue card. But he checks his Intrigue 
cards, and none of them are Combat Intrigue cards. He passes again.
Abby, satisfied with her victory, also passes.
With 10 strength, Abby wins the Conflict. The top reward of the Conflict card, Siege of Arrakeen, gives her 1 Victory Point and control of 
Arrakeen. She advances her Score marker one space on the Score track, and places one of her Control markers on the flag below the Arrakeen 
board space.
John wins the second-place reward, taking 4 Solari from the bank.
Ned receives nothing from this Conflict. He has 0 strength, and the third-place reward isn’t available in a 3-player game anyway.
Combat is resolved during this phase, but first, players have the chance to play Combat Intrigue cards.
 Phase 3: Combat
Combat Intrigue Cards
Starting with the player who has the 
First Player marker and continuing 
clockwise, each player with at least 
one troop in the Conflict may play any 
number of Combat Intrigue cards, or 
may pass.
You are not required to pass just 
because you passed earlier in the 
Combat phase. Once all players 
involved in Combat pass consecutively, 
you then resolve the Combat.
If a card changes the number of troops a player has in 
the Conflict (or otherwise alters their strength), they 
adjust their Combat marker accordingly on the Combat 
track. (Remember: if you have no troops in the Conflict, 
your strength is 0.)
A few Combat Intrigue cards do something “when 
you win a Conflict.” You do not play these now, before 
resolving the Combat. Instead, wait until you’ve won, 
then play them (before moving on to the next phase).
Resolve Combat
Rewards from the Conflict card are given to players based on their 
strength, as shown on the Combat track.
The player with the highest strength wins the Conflict 
and gains the top reward on the Conflict card. 
The player with the second highest strength gains the 
second reward. In a 4-player game (only), the player 
with the third highest strength receives the third 
reward.
A player with 0 strength does not receive any reward.
Refer to this rulebook’s back cover for a guide to the 
icons used on Conflict cards.
Once all rewards have been given, each player takes their troops from 
the Conflict and puts them in their supply (not their garrison). Reset all 
Combat markers to 0 on the Combat track.
Ties
When players tie for first place, no one wins the Conflict. The tied 
players each receive the second reward. (In a 4-player game, if two 
players tie for first place, the other two players still compete for the 
third reward.)
When players tie for second place, they each receive the third reward.
Players tying for third place receive nothing.
12


===== PAGE 13 =====
If any player is at 10 or more Victory Points on the Score track, or if the Conflict Deck is 
empty, the Endgame is triggered.
If no one has won, prepare the next round:
•	
Return the Mentat to its designated space in the Landsraad (if it’s not already there).
•	
Players recall their Agents, returning them to their Leaders.
•	
Pass the First Player marker clockwise to the next player, then begin a new  
round with Phase 1.
No one has reached 10 Victory Points, so the Mentat and the player Agents are returned to the appropriate 
places, and the First Player marker passes clockwise to Abby. A new round then begins, with phase 1.
In this phase, spice can accumulate on certain board spaces. Check each of the three board spaces with a Maker icon: The Great Flat, 
Hagga Basin, and Imperial Basin. If the space does not have an Agent, place 1 spice from the bank on that space (in the spot designated for 
bonus spice). This spice is added to any bonus spice that may already be there from previous rounds.
There is an Agent in Imperial Basin. (John played it there earlier this round.) There are no Agents in the Great Flat or Hagga Basin, 
however, so each of those spaces gets 1 bonus spice. The Great Flat already had 1 bonus spice from a previous round, so now it has 2 
bonus spice.
 Phase 4: Makers
 Phase 5: Recall
Endgame
First, you may play and resolve any 
Endgame Intrigue cards you have. 
Then whoever has the most Victory 
Points is declared the winner.
If the case of a tie, tiebreakers are, 
in order: amount of spice, Solari, 
water, and garrisoned troops.
13
Clarifications
Baron Vladimir Harkonnen — To use the Masterstroke ability, 
choose two of the four Baron Harkonnen tokens and place them on 
your Leader with the Faction side face down. (Return the other two 
to the box without letting any opponents see them.) Later, reveal 
your choices as described to gain your reward.
Bindu Suspension — You must play this Intrigue card at the start of 
your Agent turn, before doing anything else. When you do, draw a 
card, then immediately end your turn.
Calculated Hire — This Intrigue card can only take the Mentat from 
its starting position in the Landsraad.
Demand Respect — If you win a Conflict that rewards you with 
spice, you may take that spice first, then use it to play this Intrigue 
card. (You may also play To the Victor… to gain the spice to then 
play Demand Respect.)
Kwisatz Haderach — You may play this card to take an Agent turn 
even if you have no Agents left in your supply, as it lets you send 
an Agent that is already on a board space. You may send an Agent 
back to the space that it was just on.
If a board space can be used only once per game (High Council, 
Swordmaster), you can’t use Kwisatz Haderach to send an Agent 
there more than once. You can’t overcome The Voice and send an 
Agent to a board space where you can’t send an Agent.
If you move an agent away from a space with a Maker icon, 
and that space remains empty until Phase 4, bonus spice does 
accumulate there.
Paul Atreides / Poison Snooper — You can’t look at the top card of 
your deck if it is empty. (You can’t reshuffle your discard pile and 
form a new deck until you need to draw a card.)
Test of Humanity — Opponents make their choices starting from 
your left and proceeding clockwise. Each opponent must choose 
something they can do; they can’t discard if their hand is empty, or 
lose a deployed troop if they have none. An opponent who decides 
to discard chooses which card; it is not random.
The Voice — Use one of your available Control markers to mark 
the board space you choose, then remove it on your next turn. 
(The Voice only stops opponents from sending Agents to that 
board space for one turn.)
This does prevent Kwisatz Haderach from sending an Agent to the 
board space you chose.


===== PAGE 14 =====
Strategy Tips
14
For the latest rulings and clarifications, check the 
Frequently Asked Questions document at:
http://www.duneimperium.com/FAQ
Water is rare and precious on Dune, and 
vital to harvesting the valuable spice. 
Look to the Fremen, if you find yourself in 
need.
Spice is a versatile substance 
and there are many ways to 
use it. Of course, any surplus 
will always find a buyer. The 
CHOAM Company or the 
Emperor would be happy 
to take it off your hands in 
exchange for Solari. The Spacing Guild only deals in very large 
quantities of spice, but if you meet their needs, you’ll find their 
heighliner ships make it easy to move large numbers of troops to 
Dune.
Solari is the currency of the Imperium 
and greases the workings of the 
Landsraad Council. Whether you’re 
looking to make upgrades in the form 
of a Swordmaster or High Council seat, 
or just need immediate assistance from 
some extra troops or a Mentat, don’t 
come empty-handed.
Remember, when you’re acquiring cards 
for your deck, part of what you’re paying 
for is access to the various Factions. Take 
care not to leave yourself without the 
right tools to send Agents to key board 
spaces.
Each of the Factions has one board space 
with a cost and one without. The ones 
without a cost will still help you gain Influence 
with a Faction even as you’re gathering the 
resources you need for the other spaces.
When it comes to winning Conflicts, position 
is everything. The longer you can wait to 
commit your troops, the more information 
you’ll have when you do so and the less 
opportunity your opponents will have to 
react.
Sometimes in a Conflict, a lesser victory 
achieved at a lower cost can be more 
valuable than a greater victory dearly 
bought.
Intrigue cards mean you can never be too certain 
which way a Conflict is going to break.
Gaining an Alliance with one of the Factions 
can be a powerful asset on your path 
to victory. Watch out for other players 
trying to race past you, and don’t miss an 
opportunity to do the same to them!
The secretive Bene Gesserit are a good 
source of Intrigue cards, which allow 
you to surprise your opponents. They 
also have the ability to trash cards in 
your deck, which can improve it and 
help you find your strongest cards 
faster and more often.


===== PAGE 15 =====
Published by: Dire Wolf Digital
© Copyright 2020 Dire Wolf Digital, LLC. All rights reserved.
DUNE: IMPERIUM is published under license from Gale Force Nine, a Battlefront Group company.
DUNE © 2020 Legendary. All rights reserved.
DIRE WOLF DIGITAL
Game Design
Paul Dennen
Executive Producer
Scott Martins
Art and Graphic Design
Clay Brooks, Brett Nienburg, Nate Storm
Card Illustration
Clay Brooks, Atilla Guzey, Derek Herring, Kenan Jackson, 
Brett Nienburg, Raul Ramos, Nate Storm
Production
Evan Lorentz
Game Development
Justin Cohen, Paul Dennen
Additional Game Development
Corey Burkhart, Evan Lorentz, Sam Pardee, Luis Scott-Vargas, Kevin Spak, Yuri Tolpin
GALE FORCE 9
Producer & Brand Manager
Joe LeFavi 
Genuine Entertainment 
Co-Producer
John-Paul Brisigotti
Special thanks to all those involved in the creation of this game:
Brian Herbert, Kevin J. Anderson, Byron Merritt, and the Herbert Properties, LLC
Our partners at Legendary Entertainment
All of the awesome Dire Wolf Digital team members, and their friends and families,  
who helped to playtest DUNE: IMPERIUM
Credits
www.direwolfdigital.com
/direwolfdigital
 @direwolfdigital
15


===== PAGE 16 =====
Acquire. Some cards have a special acquire box, shown 
underneath their cost. You gain the effect here one time, at 
the moment you acquire the card (and not later, when you 
play it from your hand).
Acquire a Foldspace card from the Reserve.
Agent. From the Swordmaster space, you can gain your 
third Agent (that was placed next to the board during 
setup of the game), then use it for the rest of the game.
Alliance — You may use this effect only 
if you have the Alliance token of the 
Faction shown. (Here, an Alliance with 
the Spacing Guild.)
Control — If you win a Conflict with a Control reward (of 
Arrakeen, Carthag, or Imperial Basin), place your Control 
marker on the flag below that space (replacing any 
opponent’s marker there). When a Conflict card is revealed 
for a space that you already control, you may deploy one 
troop from your supply to the Conflict.
Draw a card from your deck. If your deck is empty, reshuffle 
the discard pile in your supply to form a new deck, then 
continue to draw.
Draw an Intrigue card from the Intrigue Deck. Keep it face 
down until you play it. You may look at it at any time.
Fremen Bond — You may use this effect if you have one or more 
other Fremen cards in play. Two cards with Fremen Bond can 
activate one another, regardless of order played. (See In Play.)
In Play — Cards you play on Agent turns and reveal during your 
Reveal turn remain face up and “in play” until you clean up at the 
end of your Reveal turn (unless they are trashed first).
Influence — You may use this effect only if 
you have at least the amount of Influence 
indicated with the given Faction. (Here, 2 or 
more Influence with the Fremen.)
Gain Influence with the Faction shown: 
Emperor, Spacing Guild, Bene Gesserit, 
or Fremen.
Gain one, gain two, lose one Influence. Choose 
any one of the four Factions. (When gaining 
two Influence, you can’t choose two different 
Factions.)
Lose a troop — When you lose a troop, return it to your supply 
(not your garrison).
Maker. The three board spaces with the Maker icon each 
gain 1 bonus spice during Phase 4: Makers if no Agent is 
present. When you send an Agent to one of these board 
spaces, you also gain all bonus spice there.
Mentat. Take the Mentat from its space on the board (if it’s 
there; you can’t take it from another player or another 
space). Place it on your Leader; you may use it as one of 
your Agents to take an Agent turn. When you take the 
Mentat as a Conflict reward, keep it as an Agent for next 
round and don’t return it to the board at the end of this one.
Paying a cost. An arrow indicates a cost (left 
of the arrow, or above it) and an effect (right 
of the arrow, or below it). If you don’t pay the 
cost, you don’t get the effect. You are never 
forced to pay such a cost on a card.
1
Persuasion (in the amount shown). You receive Persuasion 
mainly from the Reveal boxes on your cards. You use it to 
acquire Imperium or Reserve cards, paying the cost shown 
in the top right corner of a card.
Recall — When you recall one of your Agents, put it back on your 
Leader. You may use it again on another Agent turn in the same 
round.
3
2
Resources: Solari, Spice, Water. When you gain a 
resource or pay one as a cost, it’s taken from or 
returned to the bank. (For Solari and Spice, gain 
or pay the amount shown.)
Retreat — When you retreat a troop, move it from the Conflict 
back to your garrison.
Signet Ring. When you play your Signet Ring card on an 
Agent turn, you use the Signet Ring ability (with the 
corresponding icon) on your Leader.
Steal Intrigue. Each opponent who has four or more 
Intrigue cards must give you one of them (selected at 
random).
Sword. Each sword adds 1 strength to your strength total in 
a Conflict.
Trash one card from your hand, discard pile, or in play. 
Return it to the game box; it won’t be used for the rest of 
the game. (Reserve cards are returned to their stack in the 
Reserve instead.)  Trashing is optional unless it’s paying a 
cost, or if a card directs you to trash itself.
Troop. Recruit one troop; take it from your supply and put 
it in your garrison on the game board. (If you recruited the 
troop while sending an Agent to a Combat space, you may 
deploy it to the Conflict.)
Victory Point. When you gain a Victory Point, move your 
Score marker one space up on the Score track. When you 
lose one, move your Score marker one space down.
Icon Guide and Additional Terms


===== PAGE 17 =====
Arrakeen
Agent icon: City 
Combat space 
Recruit a troop and draw a card. Arrakeen’s 
controller gains 1 Solari.
Carthag
Agent icon: City 
Combat space 
Recruit a troop and draw an Intrigue card. 
Carthag’s controller gains 1 Solari.
Conspire
Agent icon: Emperor 
Cost: 4 spice 
Gain one Influence with the Emperor. Gain 
5 Solari, recruit two troops, and draw an 
Intrigue card.
Foldspace
Agent icon: Spacing Guild 
Gain one Influence with the Spacing Guild. 
Acquire a Foldspace card from the Reserve.
The Great Flat
Agent icon: Spice Trade 
Combat space 
Cost: 2 water 
Gain 3 spice, plus any bonus spice 
accumulated here on the Maker icon. 
Hagga Basin
Agent icon: Spice Trade 
Combat space 
Cost: 1 water 
Gain 2 spice, plus any bonus spice 
accumulated here on the Maker icon. 
Hall of Oratory
Agent icon: Landsraad 
Recruit a troop. 
During your Reveal turn, gain 1 Persuasion 
if you have an Agent here.
Hardy Warriors
Agent icon: Fremen  
Combat space 
Cost: 1 water 
Gain one Influence with the Fremen. 
Recruit two troops.
Heighliner
Agent icon: Spacing Guild  
Combat space 
Cost: 6 spice  
Gain one Influence with the Spacing Guild. 
Recruit five troops and gain 2 water.
High Council
Agent icon: Landsraad 
Cost: 5 Solari
 
You may send an Agent here only once per game. Place your 
Councilor token on an unoccupied Council seat (to the right of the 
space). For the rest of the game, during each of your Reveal turns, 
gain 2 Persuasion.
Each board space is explained here, in alphabetical order.
Combat spaces are labeled. (Remember: on the game board, they are the spaces that feature desert illustrations and crossed swords.) When 
you send an Agent to a Combat space, you may deploy to the Conflict any number of troops you recruit this turn (including troops recruited 
by the card you played). In addition, you may deploy up to two more troops from your garrison.
Board Space Guide


===== PAGE 18 =====
Imperial Basin
Agent icon: Spice Trade 
Combat space 
Gain 1 spice, plus any bonus spice 
accumulated here on the Maker icon. 
Imperial Basin’s controller gains 1 spice. 
Mentat
Agent icon: Landsraad 
Cost: 2 Solari  
Draw a card. If the Mentat is here, take it 
and place it on your Leader; this round, you 
may use it as one of your Agents to take an 
Agent turn. During Phase 5: Recall, return it 
here.
Rally Troops
Agent icon: Landsraad 
Cost: 4 Solari 
Recruit four troops.
Research Station
Agent icon: City 
Combat space 
Cost: 2 water 
Draw three cards.
Secrets
Agent icon: Bene Gesserit 
Gain one Influence with the Bene Gesserit. 
Draw an Intrigue card. Each opponent who 
has four or more Intrigue cards must give 
you one of them (selected at random).
Secure Contract
Agent icon: Spice Trade 
Gain 3 Solari.
Selective Breeding
Agent icon: Bene Gesserit 
Cost: 2 spice 
Gain one Influence with the Bene Gesserit. 
Trash one card to draw two cards.
Sell Melange
Agent icon: Spice Trade 
Cost: 2 to 5 spice. 
Gain the amount of Solari 
shown based on the cost you 
paid. You can’t make multiple 
exchanges on a single turn.
Sietch Tabr
Agent icon: City 
Combat space 
Requirement: You must have 2 or more 
Influence with the Fremen. 
Recruit a troop and gain 1 water.
Stillsuits
Agent icon: Fremen 
Combat space 
Gain one Influence with the Fremen. Gain 
1 water.
Swordmaster
Agent icon: Landsraad 
Cost: 8 Solari 
You may send an Agent here only once per 
game. Gain your Swordmaster (your third 
Agent that was placed next to the board 
during setup). Place it on your Leader. For 
the rest of the game (including this round) 
you have three Agents.
Wealth
Agent icon: Emperor 
Gain one Influence with the Emperor. Gain 
2 Solari.


===== PAGE 19 =====
House Hagal cards are used to control automated opponents (hereafter referred to as “Rivals”) who 
compete against you in solo and two-player games. These opponents send Agents to occupy board 
spaces and contest Conflicts by recruiting and deploying troops.
Rivals are affected by cards and board spaces that affect opponents (or “players”), if they have the 
specified resources.
Agents
During Phase 2: Player Turns, a Rival will take Agent turns but it will not take Reveal turns.
When a Rival takes an Agent turn, reveal the top card of the House Hagal deck. That card will send an Agent to the revealed board space, as long as that space is 
unoccupied. If the space is occupied, ignore the card and continue revealing cards until you reveal an unoccupied space.
If the House Hagal deck is ever empty (or if the Reshuffle card is revealed), immediately reshuffle the House Hagal cards to form a new deck.
When a Rival sends an Agent to a board space, ignore all normal costs and effects of that space. Instead, it gets only the effects indicated on its revealed card:
The Rival advances on the indicated Influence 
track. It earns no bonuses from an Influence 
track, but it will take a Faction Alliance if able.
The Rival uses the Signet Ring ability on its Leader. (Solo Play only)
The Rival recruits one troop from its supply for each such icon. If the 
revealed card is a Combat space, deploy them to the Conflict. 
Otherwise, put the troops in its garrison.
Any time a Rival sends an Agent to a Combat space, it also deploys up to two 
troops from its garrison (if available) to the Conflict. Do this even if the card itself 
recruited no troops (for example: a Harvest Spice card).
Combat
When Phase 3: Combat begins, each Rival that has at least one troop in the Conflict gets a Combat bonus. In turn order, reveal the top card of the House Hagal deck. (If you 
reveal the Reshuffle card, follow the instructions to reshuffle the deck and reveal again.) Ignore everything on the revealed card except for the sword icons at the bottom. 
Advance the opponent’s Combat marker on the Combat track by the number of swords revealed. Players may then play Combat Intrigue cards before resolving Combat.
House Hagal Cards — Solo & Two-Player Games
Harvest Spice cards
If the revealed card is a Harvest Spice card, 
follow the instructions on the card. If the card 
sends a Rival’s Agent to harvest spice, remove 
any bonus spice on the space. (In a two-player 
game, return it to the bank. When playing Solo, 
follow the Solo Play rules for Harvesting Spice.)
In a two-player game, a third, Rival player, House Hagal, competes against you and your opponent, serving a spoiler role. It operates by its own set of rules. It doesn’t collect 
resources, build a deck, earn rewards, or score Victory Points. It does, however, use the House Hagal cards as described earlier, sending Agents to occupy board spaces and 
competing in Conflicts by recruiting and deploying troops.
During the Game
After each of the First Player’s Agent turns, House Hagal acts, as long as it has an Agent remaining in its 
supply. (Use the method described earlier) The number of turns that House Hagal takes each round will 
vary because it acts after the First Player. For example, if one player has a Swordmaster and the other does 
not, it might take three turns in one round, then two in the next.
Because House Hagal can’t collect rewards from a Conflict, it can never claim control of a board space. 
However, if it wins a Conflict for a board space currently controlled by another player, remove that player’s 
Control marker.
Two-Player Games
Setup
Choose a color for House Hagal. Place one of its cubes 
on each of the bottom spaces beneath the Influence 
tracks of the four Factions. Put the rest of its cubes in 
its supply. It starts with no troops in its garrison.
Remove from the House Hagal deck the three 
Arrakeen cards marked “1P” in the upper right corner. 
Shuffle the remaining cards and place them and House 
Hagal’s three Agents near its supply.
Want to enhance your DUNE: IMPERIUM experience? 
Check out the Dire Wolf Game Room companion app for 
your PC, smartphone or tablet. You can use it in place of 
physical House Hagal cards to streamline your game! 


===== PAGE 20 =====
Rivals’ Turns
During Phase 2: Player Turns, your Rivals each take Agent turns in sequence with you, as long as they have an Agent remaining in their supply. (Use the method described 
earlier.)
When a Rival uses Harvest Spice to send an Agent to a board space, it gains all spice there (base and bonus). Place any accumulated resources in the Rival’s supply.
Combat
Rivals gain first- and second-place rewards from Conflicts, even things they otherwise don’t take from board spaces:
They gain Victory Points, and Influence with Factions.
They gain Solari, Spice, Water, and Intrigue cards. Keep these in the Rival’s supply (to be spent as indicated below).
They win Control of board spaces, placing a Control marker on the flag below it. On future turns, they get the Control bonus whenever you or a Rival sends an Agent 
there. They also receive the defensive bonus of one troop if a Conflict over that board space is later revealed.
They gain the Mentat, and use it as an Agent during the next round.
Additional Rules for Rivals
Swordmasters — When you reveal the Conflict card above the Rival Swordmasters, your Rivals each 
immediately receive their third Agents; they will use them in the current round and for the rest of the 
game.
Choices — Whenever a Rival has a choice about gaining Influence, they choose the Faction in which 
they have the least. In the case of a tie (or when there is a choice not involving Influence), you decide 
for the Rival.
Corner the Market — For the purposes of this Intrigue card, treat each Rival as though they have two 
The Spice Must Flow cards. (You’ll need three yourself to get 2 Victory Points.)
Expert Troop Deployment — When playing at Expert difficulty, your Rivals are more selective about 
deploying troops to a Conflict. When fighting for a Conflict I or II card, a Rival won’t deploy troops if it 
is already leading by two or more troops (saving them in its garrison instead). For a critical Conflict III 
card, a Rival will resume deploying all the troops it can at every opportunity.
In a Solo game, you face off against two Rivals who (again) don’t use the normal rules of play. Neither builds a deck, but they have other powerful advantages and share 
your goal: gain favor with the most powerful factions of the Imperium and control the spice trade on Arrakis! If either reaches 10 or more Victory Points, they will trigger the 
end of the game—and they may defeat you!
Solo Play
Setup
Select a difficulty level from the chart at the right.
Choose two Leaders, one for each Rival. During the game, these Rivals will use only the 
Signet ability on their Leaders, ignoring the ability on the left. Your opponents can’t play 
Paul Atreides or Helena Richese. (For your first solo game, Earl Memnon Thorvald and 
Glossu “The Beast” Rabban are recommended.)
For each Rival, choose a color. Place one of their cubes on each of the bottom spaces 
beneath the Influence tracks of the four Factions. Put the number of troops in their 
garrison for your chosen difficulty, and the rest in their supply. Place two of their Agents in 
their supply, and insert the Swordmasters (third Agents) for both Rivals into the Conflict 
deck, putting exactly the number of cards on top of them as indicated for your difficulty.
Remove from the House Hagal deck all cards marked “2P” in the upper right corner (the 
Reshuffle card and three Arrakeen cards). Shuffle the remaining cards and place the deck 
near your Rivals.
If your difficulty calls for it, place a 5 Solari token on the Mentat space. It means that for 
this game, this board space costs 5 Solari instead of 2!
You and your Rivals each start with 1 water, plus the extra resources indicated for your 
chosen difficulty.
The Rival on your left takes the First Player marker.
Difficulty
Setup changes based on your chosen difficulty level:
Kwisatz Haderach (Expert+): You also can’t gain a Swordmaster.
Mercenary 
(Novice)
Sardaukar 
(Veteran)
Mentat 
(Expert)
1 Solari 
1 Spice
—
—
Your Extra 
Starting Resources
No
Yes
Yes
5 Solari Token 
on Mentat Space
5
4
3
Conflict Cards Above 
Rival Swordmasters
—
1 Intrigue 
card
1 Intrigue 
card
Rival Extra 
Starting Resources
—
3
3
Rival Starting 
Garrisoned Troops 
Spending Resources
At any time, when a Rival has the indicated resources, 
they’ll spend them to earn a Victory Point.
             
  
             
  
             
  
             
  
 
 
 
 
7
7
